<!-- Start File
Understanding Portfolio — Week of feb. 15 - feb. 21

JSON 

This week I took interest in learning about JSON. I really utilized the W3 schools tutorial as well as a couple of others to learn about JSON and how to utilize it inside of JAVA code. I started writing some code using JSON Objects and Arrays and I have them print out. The tutorial and code can be found on my github at https://github.com/coltonblair13/CIT360/blob/master/JSONtutorial.java. This is the whole tutorial that I created and gave to my class members in our weekly meeting. I made a document of the tutorial because it looks like our weekly meeting video did not get posted for some reason. Maybe it is just me but this is what I went over with my team this week. If you just want to look at the code I have created and not the tutorial the code can be found at. https://github.com/coltonblair13/CIT360/blob/master/JsonDecode.java.

Hibernate ORM

This week I also started to learn about hibernate ORM as did a lot of the other members of our group. This is a really interesting topic and it seems like it is a powerful tool. In our weekly video I introduced them to a tool that I found called Hibernate Tools that has a plugin for eclipse. It is a really useful tool and taught me a lot about Mapping, Console and Reverse Engineering. This plugin has a mapping editor that is an editor for Hibernate XML mapping files, supporting auto-completion and syntax highlighting. The editor even supports semantic auto-completion for class names, property/field names, table names and column names. It also has the Hibernate Console perspective which allows you to configure database connections, provides visualization of classes and their relationships and allows you to execute HQL queries interactively against your database and browse the query results. And the coolest thing to me is it is able to reverse engineer. This means that it can generate domain model classes and Hibernate mapping files, annotated EJB3 entity beans, HTML documentation or even an entire JBoss Seam application in seconds. It is a pretty neat tool. 

I learned that ORM stands for object relational mapping and is necessary when writing object oriented code such as JAVA or C# because When we work with an object-oriented systems, there's a mismatch between the object model and the relational database. ORM is a programming technique for converting data between relational databases and object oriented programming languages and it removes this mismatch between the object and the database. This takes away the fear of changing something in the database and having it completly mess up any of the JAVA projects you are working on. 

I covered all of this in the video and showed them this plugin but again I was not able to find it and everytime I would share my screen hangouts would crash on me so I had to just tell them rather than show but anyway this was my description. The plugin that I used can be found at http://hibernate.org/tools/. 


USE Case

This week I also took your advice and dove in a little deaper with my sequence diagrams. I created both a Use Case Diagram and a use case document. My use case diagram is a diagram of some code that creates an etch a sketch type box that you can write in. The diagram represents the user interactions among the elements in the system. I used lucid charts to create this as that is what my work uses so that is what I am most familiar with. I also created a document explaining the use cases and how the user would interact with the program. This is different then the diagram because it is written out where the diagram is just a graphical representation. 

End File -->﻿